{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 1.      Explain the difference between /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow. How /etc/shadow is implemented?\par
/etc/passwd refers to a text file that contains the ascribe of (that is the basic information about) each user or account on a computer running Linux or any other Unix-like operating system.In this case permissions for /etc/passwd are by default set so that it is world readable, this is so as it can be read by any user on the system.\par
/etc/shadow is a file that  contains encrypted password as well as other information such as account or password expiration values, etc. on contrary to etc/passwd , /etc/shadow file is readable only by the root account and therefore less of the security risk.\par
The /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow differs in the fact that:\par
The passwd file has 7 fields while shadow file has 8 fields.therefore the file formats are same in such that the fields are separated by colons & new row for each user. But the number of fields are different. \par
The passwd file is world readable whereas shadow file can only be read by root account.\par
All the fields are different except for the first one. Its same for both files and  the username.\par
/etc/passwd file aims at user account details else  /etc/shadow aims at user\rquote s password details.\par
The User\rquote s encrypted password can only be stored in /etc/shadow file while it is not same case with the /etc/passwd.\par
pwconv command is used to generate shadow file from passwd file if it does not exist whereas passwd file exists by default when the system is installed.\par
The passwd file information is more of a static (home directory, shell, uid, gid which hardly changes)while shadow file information changes frequently since it is  related to password and user password changes frequently (if not, password policies are loosely defined!) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://kerneltalks.com/linux/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://kerneltalks.com/linux/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
2. Describe in detail the boot process for Windows XP operating system. What security implications are here? (Think rootkits)\par
The files Needed: NTLDR, NTDETECT.COM, BOOT.INI, NTOSKRNL.EXE, BOOTSECT.DOS, NTB00TDD.SYS, HAL.DLL, WINLOGON.EXE, LSASS.EXE\par
BOOT.INI: Provides information about the location of the Operating System. If more than one Operating system is installed in the computer, it is displayed during the boot process.\par
The NTLDR: Is the Windows Boot- Strap Loader (Which means it is a special application that is responsible to start up other files or programs which are needed to boot up Windows.)\par
The NTDETECT.COM: transfers information about the computers Hardware to NTLDR.\par
BOOTSECT.DOS is required during Dual Boot situations only.\par
NTBOOTDD.SYS is required when SCSI or ATA devices like Hard-disk Drives need to be accessed.\par
HAL.DLL is the Hardware Abstraction Layer DLL file. The Windows XP disk contains many DLL files. Windows copies all the DLL files required for your computer and names them as HAL.DLL.\par
The Windows XP Boot Process \endash  Explained as follows:\par
The first step in the Windows XP Boot Process is the POST (Power On Self Test) \endash  All the important Hardware Components are checked during this process. At this stage, if any of your add-on cards have a separate BIOS (eg: your Video Card), that will also go through checked.\par
Once the POST is done, your computer will look for the Bootable device as specified in the BIOS and will load the MBR into Memory. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tnind.wordpress.com/windows-xp-boot-sequence/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://tnind.wordpress.com/windows-xp-boot-sequence/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Rootkits refer to software that is used to hide the presence and activity of viruses, worms, Trojans and other forms of malware, and permit an attacker to take control of a computer system \par
Rootkits exploit the fact that these DLL files can be overwritten in memory and are thus able to change the flow of execution\par
(PDF) Windows Rootkits: Attacks and Countermeasures. Available from: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.researchgate.net/publication/50875025_Windows_Rootkits_Attacks_and_Countermeasures"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.researchgate.net/publication/50875025_Windows_Rootkits_Attacks_and_Countermeasures}}}\f0\fs22  [accessed Jul 17 2018].\par
3.Explain superblock with respect to Linux filesystem\par
A superblock refers to a record of the attributes of a filesystem, which includes its size, the block size, the empty and the filled blocks and their respective counts, the size and location of the inode tables, the disk block map, and usage information, and finally the size of the block groups.\par
Therefore superblock is typically stored on the storage medium but can be created in real time if one doesn't exist hence one can find the superblock structure in ./linux/include/Linux/fs.h.\par
In this structure, the set of functions for managing inodes within the file system is defined. For example, inodes can be allocated with alloc_inode or deleted with destroy_inode. You can read and write inodes with read_inode and write_inode or sync the file system with sync_fs.One can find the super_operations structure in ./linux/include/linux/fs.h. Each file system supplies its own inode methods, that implement the operations and supply the common abstraction to the VFS layer.\par
A superblock in many filesystems denotes a disk block that contains some vital information about the rest of the filesystem. therefore without the superblock, one cannot mount the filesystem, and since it's so important, there are usually multiple and unnecessary copies of the superblock stored on the filesystem for recovery. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.quora.com/In-a-Linux-file-system-what-is-a-Superblock"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.quora.com/In-a-Linux-file-system-what-is-a-Superblock}}}\f0\fs22  \par
4.      Research about IPv6 and describe the key reasons behind its design and implementation. How is it more secure then IPv4?\par
IPv6 refers to Internet Protocol version, which is the most recent version of the Internet Protocol (IP), it is the communications protocol that provides an identification and location system for computers on networks and routes traffic across the Internet. \par
It was developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) mainly to deal with the long-anticipated problem of IPv4 address exhaustion. IPv6 is therefore intended to replace IPv4. IPv6, in this case, became a Draft Standard in December 1998, and further became an Internet Standard on 14 July 2017. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6}}}\f0\fs22\par
its implementation  has been through configuration  mainly on Cisco routers 2800, Windows\par
Server 2012, Windows 8, Windows 7 and finally on MAC OS X.\par
The Cisco devices running the IOS 12.2(2) and later version support IPv6.\par
However, in Cisco routers, IPv6 services are not enabled by default. Hence the\par
IPv6 services have to be manually enabled by using ipv6 unicast-routing\par
from global configuration mode as shown below:\par
rack5_ROUTER_2800 (config)#ipv6 unicast-routing\par
After  the  enable of IPv6 services on the routers, IPv6 addresses have been\par
configured to each interface. Both the global as well as link-local addresses\par
have been assigned as static addresses. The  commands (eg rack5_ROUTER_2800(config-if)# ipv6 enable )have\par
been issued at the interface mode.\par
Followed by the interface configuration, show ipv6 interface brief command\par
has been issued to verify the configuration. whereas, to check the basic\par
connectivity between the interfaces of the router ping commands such as(rack5_ROUTER_2800#show ipv6 interface brief)  have been issued. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.theseus.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/71524/IPv6_final_thesis.pdf?...1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.theseus.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/71524/IPv6_final_thesis.pdf?...1}}}\f0\fs22\par
\b How IPv6 is more secure than IPv4\b0\par
The IPv6 protocol has solved some, although not all, of the security problems found in IPv4 networks. One example is the mandatory inclusion of IP Security (IPsec) in the IPv6 protocol, making it fundamentally more secure than the older IPv4 standard. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://thebestvpn.com/ipv4-vs-ipv6/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://thebestvpn.com/ipv4-vs-ipv6/}}}\f0\fs22\par
5.      What are the features and differences of the following routing protocols RIP, IGRP and OSPF?\par
\par
RIP refers to Routing Information Protocol which is a forceful protocol type used in local area network and wide area network. its category type is an interior gateway protocol within the use of distance vector algorithm.\par
 IGRP  is an Interior Gateway Protocol, it is a distance vector that make-believe by Cisco. The router uses it to exchange routing data within an independent system. Interior gateway routing protocol created in part to defeat the confines of RIP in large networks.\par
OSPF stands for Open Shortest Path First which refers to an active routing protocol used in internet protocol. Particularly it is a link state routing protocol and includes the group of interior gateway protocol. its operating is inside a distinct autonomous system. \par
The main difference is the fact that RIP and IGRP are distance vector protocols while OSPF is the shortest routing protocol.\par
secondly the difference in their operations, times (like updates, refreshes, etc.), how they keep track of routing tables.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/c444/c7b9b50d5a08bde7c5095e3c0e0d42bc8c54.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/c444/c7b9b50d5a08bde7c5095e3c0e0d42bc8c54.pdf}}}\f0\fs22\par
6. What is malware reverse engineering? Explain to me the different types of analysis and the goals?\par
Malware reverse engineering refers to the process of discovering the technological principles of a device, an object, or else system through analysis of its structure, function, and the operation.\par
Analysis refers to a way of knowing where the effect of computer intrusion from malicious software, such as backdoors, Trojans,network worms, exploits etc can be traced on a compromised system.\par
The different analysis methods involve:\par
Behavioral analysis- This method examines how the specimen interacts with its environment.\par
The code analysis- this phase allows one to learn about the specimen\rquote s abilities by examining into the code from which the program is comprised.\par
The main goal of both phases of analysis is its importance for security, systems, and network professionals. This helps during incident response and forensic investigation. Furthermore, it also helps you finetune your defensive mechanisms, and help you create intrusion detection signatures for locating the specimen across your enterprise. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zeltser.com/media/docs/intro-to-malware-analysis.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://zeltser.com/media/docs/intro-to-malware-analysis.pdf}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
}
 